China has been a fantastic growth story
their ability to increase growth in the
economy year after year has been
unprecedented their desire for foreign
exchange and foreign debt has been
ferocious up until now this has allowed
the wheels to keep spinning but
something has been changing and China
reacted you came here for the truth
today we're going to talk about China
Hong Kong and real estate let's begin
China's forex reserves dropped below
three trillion dollars for the first
time in six years this is a very
significant decline because they were
recently at four trillion dollars and
now there are three trillion
percentage-wise that is very significant
this has been not a one-off scenario as
it's talking about here in the subtitle
dropping 12 billion last month know this
has been a trend month after month after
month we have seen a decrease in these
forex reserves people are not prepared
for a slowdown in China they're not
prepared for any sort of change that
would really affect what's happening in
the markets they're just hoping that
things continue the way they are but
I've got some news for you things seem
to be changing now this article here is
talking about capital outflows out of
the South China Morning Post
they say the outflow pressure to worsen
in the second half of this year as the U
one could reverse course and weaken
against the greenback if the fed reduces
its balance sheet as expected while
Chinese economic growth looks likely to
slow down further now we want to
interject right here there's probably
already 50 comments disagreeing with me
but let me interject what we have in
China has been unprecedented
growth that's a fact they're growing
faster than the countries in the West
they continue to prove that they are
able to build infrastructure they're
able to build new organizations like the
AIB they're becoming a leader in their
own way they're partnering up with
Russia they're doing deals in Africa in
other places around the world which the
West doesn't have as much influence so
what has been driving a lot of this
growth
well the consumption around the world
China has been basically the
manufacturing output for the other
countries around the world to a great
degree anyway however we have seen the
greatest public works projects that have
ever taken place in the history of
humanity in China that is building
cities before anyone has a desire to
live in them they are building
infrastructure far greater than what we
have ever seen before and this here I
believe has made a major impact on China
they have been continuing to consume and
consume commodities like crazy because
they've been building infrastructure
that at this time isn't needed or at
least at the time these cities were
built a lot of people will disagree a
lot of people will put their comments
below and of course you're entitled to
your opinion
I prefer facts but your opinions are of
course welcome this is why I believe
China has been able to do so and many
other countries would fare much better
off if they engaged in these policies
versus central bank quantitative easing
now China is doing that as well of
course but we know that I would take any
day of the week
Public Works over printing money I'm not
agreeing with either policy I think
both bat but at the very least at least
something's being built it's not just
printing of currency and giving it to
bankers that is just ludicrous policy
designed to make us pork now let me know
there's a lot to cover here I don't want
to take up too much of your time
so I interjected that I want to mention
that let me continue on very quickly
here the outflow pressure should be
manageable
unless sentiment on the yuan turns
significantly more negative will that
happen I don't know we'll see what
happens with the dollar at the current
pace capital outflows aren't putting
much pressure on the People's Bank of
China reserves since they are largely
offset by a current account surplus that
of course could change as well look at
this Chinese buyers we're talking about
Hong Kong now Chinese buyers have been a
major factor pushing up property prices
in the past 12 to 18 months once it
reverses we estimate a 20% downside risk
for prices
he's a property analyst this individual
is he correct I don't know but it is
something to take note another point
that I want to make was that China has
introduced capital controls these
capital they already had capital
controls but they are imposing new
capital controls let's say new
restrictions part of that is the whole
deals you seen with Hollywood and
everything else that's talking about the
overseas investments in the bottom
paragraph but I'll just mention this
with capital controls you are able to
restrict the amount of money fleeing
from your country I believe that they
have done this in order to stop what has
been a flood an absolute flood despite
the fact that these numbers increase
they decrease as time goes on however
we have seen China has been victim to
capital outflows a lot of people have
been buying of course assets all over
the world you've seen that you've seen
the property prices increase in places
like let's say San Francisco Vancouver
Toronto or other places where we have a
lot of foreign investment coming from
China so part of that is also the
purchasing up of Hollywood corporations
and then businesses and land and
everything else elsewhere and China
wants to just squash that a little bit
and so they are imposing capital
controls they do that you know a lot of
country sentence and to some degree
every country has their own limitations
for what money can move out where they
ask you the 20 questions you know the
drill we expect a slowdown of outbound
buying activities from Chinese buyers on
the back of this announcement talking
about the capital controls given the
fact that mainline buyers have been the
main price setters for big-ticket
transactions in the property market over
the last few years the expected slowdown
would be highly likely would highly
likely dampen the expectation of
potential sellers and other bidders so
they think they're going to have these
record-setting transactions less
frequently so of course things are still
happening it's not like it's a ghost
town out there no pun intended but we
have to know that there are times where
China will experience a setback then
when they experience that setback they
try to react they put the capital
controls in they want money to stay
there and they want more infrastructure
more development in their own country
maybe they don't want that money being
sent from mainland China into Hong I
don't know what the policies are going
on behind the scenes all I know is that
things have been changing recently and
this is all part of the currency wars
that are taking place we want to watch
out where our currency goes because we
don't want to necessarily boost another
economy we want to have our own economy
being lifted up but at the same time you
want to watch out how much currency
stays in your country it's a war that's
for sure definitely there's more in here
let me just quickly mention this so far
in 2017 mainland developers okay have
invested six billion to win
80% of all residential land tenders in
the city so mainland China has been
doing a lot of these purchases in Hong
Kong there they really in recently
anyway the main buyers that's what's
happening right now I think that that
could be a significant change
if these capital controls really take
hold and then perhaps even strengthen
and time goes on let me just quickly
cover these last two here in Hong Kong
that's very clear that's obvious to me
to anyone else the rents same thing it's
something that we need to take note of
mainland investment demand into Hong
Kong property market has already fallen
sharply since the government tightened
capital controls in November 2016
accounting for just 7.2 of total
investment in the city's office market
in the first half of the year compared
with 31% the same period of 2016 we see
a significant change here it's showing
you that the prices though they can
continue to increase I'm not denying
that but pay attention to the trend
that's all I'm saying
I believe this chart and below it is
something very telling to me and last
but not least right here very quickly m1
and m2 growth and within the last let's
say year
been declining it I think it's these
values are generally way way too
inflated as it is and as a result we see
the real fictitious economies okay
they're not real whether it's China is
whether it's us it does matter but I
believe anyway it's healthy for it to
come down but that type of thing really
set off things within this financial
markets that they have and they will
react to this as well you can see that
you know maybe this will become a
concern for some of those analysts
they'll tell their traders to begin
selling the funds will begin selling who
knows all I know is that this is a fact
em1 and em2 has been declining I just
wanted to bring that to you that's all
for this video if you found it
informative please give me a thumbs up
if you think it's wrong give me a thumbs
down share your opinion have an opinion
this is one of the only channel that
tells people give thumbs down by the way
if you found this video informative I
know you'll find my books the money GPS
and my new release global economic
collapse even more informative so these
are available at Amazon they're
available Barnes & Noble I got them in
the Kindle edition that the audio book
for the newest release those are
available links down below the first
book I actually talked about the US and
China relationship I also get into the
four asset classes and how to profit
from it
whereas my new book takes on the
familiar concepts but I get into reduce
your monthly expenses becoming
self-sufficient and other topics in what
I call the money GPS strategy so check
that out links are in the description
take care as always I wanted to invite
everybody to check me out on vid me and
steam it so you can check those out of
course links are in the description take
care mine